Holybro CM4 IP address corrections and UXRCE-DDS addition (#3439)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/companion_computer/holybro_pixhawk_rpi_cm4_baseboard.md

## Ethernet Connection (Optional)

The flight controller module is [internally connected to RPi CM4](#rpi-cm4-fc-serial-connection) from `TELEM2` (serial).

You can also set up a local Ethernet connection between them using the supplied cable.
Ethernet connectivity provides a fast, reliable, and flexible communication alternative to using USB or other serial connections.

::: info
For general Ethernet setup information see: [PX4 Ethernet Setup](../advanced_config/ethernet_setup.md).

> The setup here is much the same, eccept that we have used the following `netplan` config on PX4:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup here is much the same, except that we have used the following `netplan` config on PX4:
```

```sh
network:
  version: 2
  renderer: NetworkManager
  ethernets:
    eth0:
      addresses:
        - 10.41.10.1/24
      nameservers:
        addresses: [10.41.10.1]
      routes:
        - to: 10.41.10.0/24  # Local route to access devices on this subnet
          scope: link        # Scope link to restrict it to local subnet
```

> This sets `eth0` as our channel for the local Ethernet link.
> Note that we only set up this locally linked route to prevent internet access disruption over WiFi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sets `eth0` as our channel for the local Ethernet link (instead of ``, which is used in [the normal setup](../advanced_config/ethernet_setup.md#ubuntu-ethernet-network-setup).
Note that we only set up this locally linked route to prevent internet access disruption over WiFi.
```

> Note that we only set up this locally linked route to prevent internet access disruption over WiFi.

Author: > Is this what you meant?
> 
> What does the second sentence mean? Perhaps you are suggesting that it is some kind of backup route?

We do not want the default route to be over local ethernet network cause then it blocks internet access. So we need to keep the default route over WiFi to have internet access. This is what I came up to with testing.

> Note that we only set up this locally linked route to prevent internet access disruption over WiFi.

Reviewer: @farhangnaderi Assume I know nothing. What is the/a default route? Do you mean the default route set on RPi or something else? What makes something the default route? Is it the name `eth0` or `enp2s0`?

What I "guess" you are saying is that we don't want to send Internet traffic over our local ethernet network because we're already using it for XRCE-DDS. If we were to send our internet packets the whole thing would fall over. But what are these internet packets you are sending? Connection to QGC over Wifi?

Anyway, so I think you're setting up a local link to send our XRCE-DDS packets over ETH, so we can keep our Wifi link open to QGC. Is that right? Presumably by setting up `eth0` we are telling the CM4 to use that for XRCE-DDS somehow?

If not, please spell it out in laymans networking.

> Note that we only set up this locally linked route to prevent internet access disruption over WiFi.

Reviewer: OK, so I'm just assuming I'm right - you could use Wifi for the comms,  but that would clash with internet. So we set up the local route.

::: info
For more general information see: [PX4 Ethernet Setup](../advanced_config/ethernet_setup.md).

> Except we have used the below ```netplan``` config:

Reviewer: You only need one backtick inline

> ```sh

Reviewer: Just FYI (and you may have done this) I would add why you need this configuration. I presume it is because this is what comes "out of the box" and it is incompatible with PX4 out of the box. 

I won't make other comments until this is ready for review.

Author: The route is touched with the docs from Ethernet setup which disconnects internet access on pi. We either need to edit Ethernet Setup docs to this or just mention on this specific board. 
The best way to me is to correct ethernet setup doc.

Author: I added the reason for it under the note.

Reviewer: Unfortunately, you might as well be speaking in another language. 

I think you are saying that the generic Ethernet docs cover other boards, and to make things correct for this board we need to do some things different. Right?

Author: > I think you are saying that the generic Ethernet docs assumes that the wired Ethernet connection is on `enp2s0` but for RPi it is `eth0` - is that right?

Correct!

sudo ip link set dev eth0 up
```

This sets a link-local address.
For this example it looks like this:

```sh
$: ip address show eth0
2: eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc mq state UP group default qlen 1000
    link/ether e4:5f:01:bf:e0:17 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
    inet 10.41.10.1/24 brd 10.41.10.255 scope global noprefixroute eth0
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
    inet6 fe80::e65f:1ff:febf:e017/64 scope link
       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
```

This means the CM4's ethernet IP is `10.41.10.1` .

#### Ping Test

> First from the CM4:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First ping PX4 from the CM4 (using the PX4's default address):
```

```sh
$ ping 10.41.10.2
```

Should give something like:

```sh
PING 10.41.10.2 (10.41.10.2) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 10.41.10.2: icmp_seq=1 ttl=64 time=0.187 ms
64 bytes from 10.41.10.2: icmp_seq=2 ttl=64 time=0.109 ms
64 bytes from 10.41.10.2: icmp_seq=3 ttl=64 time=0.091 ms
^C
--- 10.41.10.2 ping statistics ---
3 packets transmitted, 3 received, 0% packet loss, time 2049ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.091/0.129/0.187/0.041 ms
```

:::info

> If this step is failing it is worth to check if the [firewall](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UncomplicatedFirewall) is active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this step fails, check if a [firewall](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UncomplicatedFirewall) is active.
```

:::

> Then from the flight controller in Nuttx Shell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then ping the CM4 from the flight controlle.
Enter the following command in the Nuttx Shell:
```

56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=0 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=1 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=2 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=3 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=4 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=5 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=6 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=7 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=8 time=0.0 ms
56 bytes from 10.41.10.1: icmp_seq=9 time=0.0 ms
10 packets transmitted, 10 received, 0% packet loss, time 10010 ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 0.000/0.000/0.000/0.000 ms
```

#### MAVLink/MAVSDK Test

For this, we need to set the MAVLink instance to send traffic to the CM4's IP address:

For an initial test we can do:

```sh
mavlink start -o 14540 -t 10.41.10.1
```

This will send MAVLink traffic on UDP to port 14540 (the MAVSDK/MAVROS port) to that IP which means MAVSDK can just listen to any UDP arriving at that default port.

To run a MAVSDK example, install mavsdk via pip, and try out an example from [MAVSDK-Python/examples](https://github.com/mavlink/MAVSDK-Python/tree/main/examples).

#### XRCE-Client Ethernet Setup

> Now it is needed to enable MAVLink on the PX4 `Ethernet` port and enable `XRCE-DDS`.

Reviewer: What are you doing here? I THINK you are setting up MAVLink to run on the wired connection to TELEM2, and XRCE-DDS to connect to the Ethernet link you just set up right?

Author: > What are you doing here? I THINK you are setting up MAVLink to run on the wired connection to TELEM2, and XRCE-DDS to connect to the Ethernet link you just set up right?

I am enabling Ethernet on MAV_2 here.

Reviewer: So you're setting both mavlink and XRCE-DDS on the same local ethernet serial port?:

```
param set MAV_2_CONFIG     1000        # Configure Ethernet port
param set UXRCE_DDS_CFG    1000   
```

I don't think that is allowed - it shouldn't work as only one thing should own a serial port at a time.

Don't we normally have mavlink over a separate dedicated internal serial link?

Author: You are absolutely right Hamish! My bad in tests.
